SOD and SODA License Agreement as of July 24, 2007 - 3rd Public Release


PREAMBLE
These diagrams exist because of an enormous effort and at great
personal sacrifice in terms of time and income of several persons.
Ownership of these diagrams is not taken lightly, nor should the
privilege of their free use be taken lightly.  The benefits of using
these diagrams comes with the responsibility of compliance with this
license.  Your responsible use makes future public release of larger
collections tenable.


PLEASE READ: THIS GRANT OF LICENSE HAS CHANGED (3rd LICENSE  VERSION)
Each new public release of diagrams from the SODER project has its own
unique grant of license.  With increasing investments of time and money
into the project, this most recent grant of license intends to make more
clear to the public how to freely use the diagrams while protecting
owner's copyright.  This license applies to the public release of the
archive whose members constitute 1,654 GIF89a formatted stroke order
diagram animations (SODAs) and 1,654 PNG formatted static stroke order
diagrams (SODs).  This release of the 1,654, supplants and replaces the
experimental public release of the first 500 SODs and 500 SODAs created
by the Stroke Order Diagram Editor-Retrographer (SODER), and also
replaces the public release which followed containing 1,000 SODs and
1,000 SODAs. You should completely replace the older sets with this new
one. Many of the 1,000 previously released SODs and 1,000 SODAs have
been reedited and improved.


COMMERCIAL LICENSE NOTICE
Please note that this license does not apply
to PRINT MEDIA or commercial use.  You MUST have a commercial license to
use these diagrams in any product which you will sell or otherwise
financially benefit from.  Rolomail Trading, James Rose, and The Kanji
Cafe specifically reserve the exclusive right to use these diagrams in
books or other printed media sold to the public unless you have explicit
permission, or a commercial license.  Commercial license will be granted
inexpensively, so do not hesitate to inquire.  For example:  Permission
has been granted to one publisher to use no more than 4 of the diagrams
in a book at no cost as the book deals with Japanese teaching methods.
Permission to use 177 of the diagrams was denied to a book author whose
work was devoted to teaching Japanese kanji because he has yet to pursue
a commercial license for use with the book he was writing despite the
book being a commercial project.  If you see these diagrams being used
on the web or in a book, and do not see the name of the person or
organization/ website using the diagrams listed here, they are not
otherwise authorized, and we would appreciated being notified.


GRANT OF LICENSE
License is hereby granted to use these 1,654 Stroke
Order Diagrams (SODs) and or 1,654 Stroke Order Diagram Animations
(SODAs) on websites or in offline, non-commercial software such as
free-ware, subject to each of these SIX specific LIMITATIONS:

1. YOU MUST PROVIDE A LINK TO YOUR WEBSITE, or software product which
intends to use the diagrams, which then must appear on public display at
the license page at www.kanjicafe.com/license.htm before your use is
legal and compliant.  Use of the 3rd public release of 1,654 kanji is
unauthorized unless you have provided valid link information to
KanjiCafe.com and it is subsequently on public display.  To have your
website linked to from the license page, and thereby comply with the
license agreement, send the URL of your site or product to "jim (at)
kanjicafe.com".  If you are upgrading from the 2nd public release of
1,000 kanji, you must comply with this limitation (1) before using the
new 1,654 kanji set.

(This provision has been added to help familiarize the public with
products and websites which make use of the project's SODAs and SODs
in a legal manner, as well as to help promote legal use of the diagrams
and animations in accordance with this license.)

2. All web sites using these Kanji Stroke Order Diagrams or Stroke Order
Diagram Animations must provide a link back to the License page
www.kanjicafe.com/license.htm FROM ANY PAGE DISPLAYING ONE OR MORE OF
THE DIAGRAMS OR ANIMATIONS. Software must contain either a web link, or
the URL of KanjiCafe.com displayed concomitant with the display of any
SOD or SODA.

3. The attribution on the diagrams may not be altered, removed, or
concealed. It must be displayed along with any display of the SOD or
SODA.
  - Each SOD has the attribution "(c) KanjiCafe.com". 
  - Each SODA has the attribution "(c) KanjiCafe".
  - Special archives may have other, similar attributions.

4. These diagrams and animations may never be sold, nor bundled in any
product being sold without first obtaining a commercial license. They
are not yours to sell. If you sell them, you must have a commercial
agreement with the Rolomail Trading.

5. You may not use either the SODs or SODAs to create derivative
diagrams or animations nor alter the diagrams.

6. Anyone redistributing this particular set of 1,654 diagrams or
animations must include an exact copy of this particular grant of
license.


Notes:

Where in previous releases it would have been appreciated if anyone
using the first 1,000 SODs or SODAs as a courtesy would have notified
Jim Rose at jim(at)kanjicafe.com, with the 3rd public archival release
of the first 1,654 completed SODs and SODAs, it is now a license
requirement in compliance with limitation (1).

Many of stroke order diagrams in this current release are the only kanji
stroke order diagrams available for that particular kanji to the general
public.  i.e., there is no reference with which to dispute the joint
opinion of the artist and editor.  In each case the artist and editor
have referenced other kanji diagrams which contain the same radical
elements, and are backed up by known public references to ensure
accurate depictions of the correct order.

The SODER project's goal is to create SODs for each of the 6,353 kanji
in JIS X 0208-1990. The SODs are used to automatically create SODAs. In
choosing which kanji to work on for these first 1,654 there has been no
attempt to encompass any particular well defined subset of chinese
characters. However, they are all from the more "important" 1/3rd of the
JIS X 0208-1990 set. Note that none of the kanji in this release exceed
15 strokes. We plan to make another, larger public release of new
diagrams and animations at the milestones of every 500 characters, or 12
public releases before the final set is published.  This is the 3rd
public release.

Each SOD diagram is in PNG format and each SODA animation is in GIF89a
format.  Both are named by the kanji, in this form:

<kanji>.png

and . . .

<kanji>.gif

These archive files are named by the kanji encoded as either EUC-JP
(Linux, FreeBSD, etc.) or Unicode (Mac OS X):

EUC-JP Encoded File Names:
sod-euc.tar.gz
soda-euc.tar.gz

Unicode Encoded File Names:
sod-utf8.tar.gz
soda-utf8.tar.gz

These archives have files named by the hex code for the kanji encoded as
EUC-JP (Linux, FreeBSD, etc.), Unicode (Mac OS X), Japan Information
Standard or JIS (mostly in Japan), and Shift-JIS (Windows).

SODs
sod-euc-hex.tar.gz
sod-jis-hex.tar.gz 
sod-sjis-hex.tar.gz
sod-utf8-hex.tar.gz

SODAs
soda-euc-hex.tar.gz
soda-jis-hex.tar.gz
soda-sjis-hex.tar.gz
soda-utf8-hex.tar.gz

All rights to these diagrams and animations are retained by James Rose,
the KanjiCafe.com, and the Rolomail Trading.

Thanks for your cooperation,

Jim Rose 
Tuesday, April 07 2009
